## A Magisk module resampling for cheapies

This module has been developed for casual users to overide re-sampling parameters of AudioFlinger (the system-wide mixer) in my other modules (["Audio misc. settings"](https://github.com/Magisk-Modules-Alt-Repo/audio-misc-settings) and ["Hifi Maximizer"](https://github.com/yzyhk904/hifi-maximizer-mod)) so as to significantly improve audio quality of LDAC Bluetooth earphones and DAC's under $30 (probably) especially when replaying 48 kHz tracks up-sampled over or equal to 96 kHz & 24 or 32 bits by AudioFlinger except the quality of internal speakers and a 3.5 mm jack receiving 48 kHz audio data without re-sampling by AudioFlinger. If you are an audiophile expert, please use "extras/change-resampling-quality.sh" in ["USB SampleRate Changer"](https://github.com/yzyhk904/USB_SampleRate_Changer) which can change the parameters on the fly flexibly.

By the way, although most people might wonder how this module improve the audio quality of such devices, it is accomplished by very long filter length re-sampling near ideally (almost without pre-echo, ringing (post-echo) and aliasing noise) cutting off a frequency zone from just above 20 kHz filled with ultrasonic noise (although most people believe part of natural sound) generated by high frequency dithering (also called delta-sigma modulation, noise-shaping, super bit-mapping, etc.) at recording time and even 16 bits noise-shaping rounding output time (e.g., Opus decoders), and deteriorating audible sound like a thin veiling smokescreen by intermodulation significantly amplified by large amplification non-linearity of LDAC Bluetooth earphones and DAC's under $30. Furthermore this can be considered to be a kind of decimation filtering from 48 kHz & 16 bits samples (having dynamic range larger than usual 16 bits limit with ultrasonic noise) to 40 kHz & 24 or 32 bits ones except the ultrasonic noise by hight frequency dithering. So it has little effect when using AAC and SBC codecs which transmit audio data by 44.1 kHz & 16 bits. 

However, as the noise has a merit adding mellowness into audible sound in the case of none cheap DAC's having very small amplification non-linearity, please use this module only when using LDAC Bluetooth earphones (any devices, as far as I know) and DAC's under $30 (typically using DAC chip CX31993, ALC5686, KT0210, etc.).

Finally, this module is designed to override re-sampling parameters set by my other modules, but can be used by itself only. You can install this module and enjoy its effect whether you are using one of them together or not.


Notes:
* If you feel your LDAC earphones or "cheapie" DAC wouldn't become to sound good at all, try editting "service.sh" script in the installed place or its ZIP archive so as to replace "85" in it with "86" or "87" for appropriately cutting off ultrasonic noise causing intermodulation.
* This module doesn't have the effect for Hires. tracks (greater than 48 kHz sample rate) which not having large pre-echo and ringing, and high frequency dithering noise, except ultrasonic noise added on purpose for mellowness. Anyhow, if you want to improve the quality of only Hires. tracks on "cheapie" devices, edit "service.sh" script in the installed place or its ZIP archive as described in the script.
* LDAC earphones and DAC's deteriorate the quality more or less by their internal over-sampling filtering when receiving low sample rate data.
* Don't forget disabling "A2DP hardware offload" on Snapdragon devices (if you can), because it forces double re-sampling (48 kHz to 48 kHz (i.e., a low-pass filter), and 48 kHz to 96 kHz) and it is so much worse that the latter re-sampling guts the former one at all.
* Also don't forget disabling "Absolute Volume" of Bluetooth devices in developer settings and setting a volume at the device side to be maximum for the best audio quality by avoiding analog low pass filtering on portable devices having very large input parasitic capacitance.

<br/>
<br/>

- Appendix A. Examples of Re-sampling Parameters :
    
    
    | Stop band attenuation (dB) | Half filter length | Cut-off (%) | Stop band (%) | Memo |
    | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---- |
    | AOSP parameters: | - | - | - | - |
    | 90 | 32 | 100 | | Default Quality|
    | 80 | 16 | 100 | | LOW Quality |
    | 84 | 16 | 100 | | MED Quality |
    | 98 | 32 | 100 | | HIGH Quality |
    | Parameters of Audio misc. settings: | - | - | - | - |
    | 159 | 480 | 92 | | Old devices of A11 and earlier |
    | 165 | 360 | | 104 | Low performance devices of A12 and later with audio ones having small amp. non-linearity |
    | 179 | 408 | | 99 | General purpose on A12 and later for audio devices having small amp. non-linearity |
    | 194 | 520 | | 98 | Ultra Hi-Fi for audio devices having small amp. non-linearity |
    | Parameters of this module: | - | - | - | - |
    | 194 | 520 | 91 ~ 94 | | AAC or Flac 44.1kHz; for LDAC BT earphones and DAC's under $30 both having large amp. non-linearity |
    | 194 | 520 | 83 ~ 86 | | Opus 48kHz; for LDAC BT earphones and DAC's under $30 both having large amp. non-linearity |
    | 194 | 520 | 42,43 | | Hires. 96kHz; for LDAC BT earphones and DAC's under $30 both having large amp. non-linearity |
    | External examples: | - | - | - | - |
    | 100 | 29 | (91) | 109 | AK4493 (Sharp roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | 150 | 42 | (91) | 109 | AK4191EQ (Sharp roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | 120 | 35 | (97) | 110 | ES9038PRO (Fast roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | vary 50 ~ 118 | 34 | 96 | (398) | ES9039PRO (Fast roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | 110 | 40 | (96) | 109 | CS43131 (Fast roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | 110 | 40 | (96) | 109 | CS43198 (Fast roll-off N-fold over-sampling) |
    | 98 | 130 | 98.5 | | MacOS Leopard (guess) |
    | 159 | 240 | | 99 | iZotope, No-Alias (guess) |
    | 100 | 64 | | 99 | SoX HQ linear phase (guess) |
    | 170 | 520 | | 99 | SoX VHQ linear phase (guess) |

    * % in "Cut-off" and "Stop band" (starting from) fields means the proportion to the Nyquist frequency.
<br/>

- Appendix B. Characteristics of Re-sampling Parameters :
    
    
    | Category | Background opaqueness (aliasing noise) | Pre-echo and ringing | Mellowness (intermodulation) | Memo |
    | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---: | ---- |
    | DAC | light | heavy | heavy | AK4491EQ Sharp roll-off |
    | DAC | medium | medium | light | ES9039PRO Fast roll-off |
    | Mastering tool | slight | slight | light | iZotope, No Alias (guess) |
    | Audio misc. settings | almost none | almost none | light | Ultra Hi-Fi |
    | Audio misc. settings | very slight | very slight | medium | for low performance devices |
    | Audio misc. settings | slight | almost none | almost none | for old devices |
    | This module | almost none | almost none | very slight | for LDAC BT earphones and DAC's under $30 |

<br/>
<br/>

## DISCLAIMER

* I am not responsible for any damage that may occur to your device, so it is your own choice whether to attempt this module or not.

##
